identical quadruplets are a miracle of
nature out of 60 million people in the
whole of the UK the college goers are
the only ones this year they've reached
a pivotal time in their young lives they
go into school we follow them out into
the big wide world and discovered just
how identical the girls really are can
you see where you are now and how
different you want to open a box you
don't want to open any boxes and a trip
to America if their parents a glimpse of
what the future holds the thought of
them going off on their own in different
directions made me feel very anxious
this is an intimate portrait of an
extraordinary family it tries to answer
the big question what's it really like
to be four
[Music]
so do you know what a cordis yeah what's
the quad and one we'd like what bikes I
might like them what's a quad and now
you don't know know a new Accord yes so
why are you of course it gets I'm for it
so Triplett and mean to oldest a le
Georgie Holly and Jessica live with
their mom and dad in a small village in
rural Bedford sure we moved into this
house or I should tell my husband moved
into this house and the week after the
girls were born and it's six doors away
from my mum and dad because we knew
we're gonna need some help so as you can
see we've got four coat Packers four
coats and more for coat pegs over there
and four coats and lots of shoes your
target of four identical owns a zone -
cozy an unusual nickname the quadfather
as my friends like to call me there's
some of my friends yeah you're the man
you're the man you know whatever I'm
just fate for a good year parent is
always hard work but for mum and Julie
basic disks are full time differently
[Music]
the identical thing people don't get the
identical thing
I get a lot of very silly comments and
very stupid comments and people not
necessarily thinking about what they're
saying are they one of each six how many
times did you have to have sex to get
those and you know things like they're
in a quad buggy all dressed exactly the
same pink coat what you got there boys
well what do you say what do you say to
that
Julian Jose married in 2005 after a
whirlwind romance Jose had a son from a
previous relationship but both in their
late 30s they were keen to start a
family together after a year we
discovered that we were having a few
problems conceiving and so we went to
have some tests where we when we
discovered that probably more down to do
with my age I wasn't ovulating every
month so my cycles were a bit irregular
and I wasn't producing eggs every month
so you know pregnancy was going to be
quite difficult you had discussions
about using whatever methods when she
fell pregnant actually and that's where
it all began
[Music]
then looked forward to the the next
months if you like of planning and
having a baby a baby being the operative
word
so we you know lay down on the bed and
the snow wolf puts the gel on your belly
then he gets the tour and he tells you
to look in the screen I sort of looked
at him and he went a bit gray whitish if
you like and this is multiple pregnancy
but I saw looked at Julian smile teeth
it is you just think twins and million
things went through my head a boy and a
girl and he said now this is really
really serious he said there's actually
four babies in here at which point Julie
burst out crying
my legs gave way I literally was on the
floor my knees Julie was only the 27th
woman in the world to naturally
conceived monochorionic quads these
super rare babies are formed when one
fertilized egg splits to create four
genetically identical embryos or sharing
the same placenta the odds of their
conception a 1 in 64 million
the family were referred to a specialist
hospital in London today they've come
back to meet dr. Kaelin O'Donoghue one
of the medics who helped me through the
pregnancy of course you get you get
involved especially when you see a
couple quite frequently and I think with
them we were aware that it was a very
unusual pregnancy we're aware of some of
the complications that might that might
happen we were aware that the couple
were really positive and really wanted a
good outcome and very hopeful of course
therefore for them that nothing bad
would happen
Julie was also being cared for by a
hugely experienced medical team they
warned her that the rarity of her
pregnancy held huge risks for both her
and her only own children this professor
has never seen monochorionic quads
survive
he said he's I think he said he had one
in his lifetime and they didn't survive
blobbs
just a few weeks into her pregnancy the
medical team who gave Julie the stark
truth about her baby's chances the risks
of them surviving and being normal are
20%
um at this point makes feel quite
emotional and we are asked if we would
like to reduce
the official Terra marina is multi fetal
pregnancy reduction and what it means is
ending the life of one baby to allow the
others to continue and have a better
chance so they were offered selective
termination of the pregnancy preferably
reducing from four babies - two babies
and then obviously explained to us that
because they are all closely connected
with one placenta whatever you do to one
can affect the other three and we can't
play God so we decide we're going to go
for the pregnancy and stick through it I
[Music]
was healthy and I felt that I wanted to
give it the best shot because that was
the fairest thing for me to do and I
didn't see any reason why we couldn't
have four children despite the dangers
Julie continued with her pregnancy after
just seven months baby Jessica was
struggling to survive in the womb
the quads were delivered by emergency
caesarean at 29 weeks each girl weighed
less than three pounds
[Music]
this room is you know the ice it was
weird I couldn't be a mom even though I
was a map because I couldn't cuddle them
I couldn't breastfeed them could do
anything I just had to sit really a
watch and wait so it's quite weird
coming back and seeing for cots in the
room and thinking that they were that
small ones you know of the four sisters
Jessica was the smallest at just one
pound nine ounces for three days her
life hung in the balance
very emotional inside and but mostly
happy time I don't really remember being
at all the anxiety that we went through
or prior to the birth I mean afterwards
for them were saying for the first few
days it's played down a bit and it's
just a little bit being a happy they're
looking forward to getting them higher
after eight weeks in hospital the girls
arrived home and ever since Holly and
Jessica and Georgie have spent every
moment of their lives together
[Music]
the girls bought the arts and survived
and for the first five years of their
lives everything they've had has been
identical from the food they'd to the
toys they plainly
to the clothes they wear em sometimes
the girls have heard people saying to me
why your children will dress the same
and they have actually asked me well I
mean why are we all dressed the same
so I've just said that it's because it's
the way you like it I don't know if it's
right or wrong I don't know why it would
be wrong to put it that way but I don't
I don't know dressing them differently
so I don't know just sort of doesn't sit
comfortably with me at the moment
do you and your sisters yeah do you all
it the same do you all look different
feel a little aside exactly the same
yeah can you tell the difference between
you and your sisters having all come
from the same egg the girls are
genetically identical until the age of
one mom and Julie could only tell her
daughters apart by writing their
initials on their feet and the girls can
still sometimes Wow can you see where
you are no no no that's holy well done
up till now the girls lives have always
revolved around the home the family and
each other
they're our team they've become so much
of a team no tend to do it when I take
them anywhere I feel like I'm David
Beckham's reminder or something like I'm
I'm partially famous reading with them
do you struggle with them do you
struggle to tell the girls apart no not
if they are facing me if they're facing
me I find it very easy
definitely face on yes yeah hello there
all right Ellie oh nice Georgie actually
it's not daily I'm just proving that I
know what I'm doing here this year the
girls turn five and will be spreading
their wings for the first time I worry a
little bit that it'll be very difficult
for outsiders to break in because the
relationship they have with themselves
is going to be better than almost
anything anybody else can produce
tomorrow is the first day of the new
term at primary school and the girls
bond will be put to the test my little
babies aren't little babies anymore
and they're going out into the big wide
world and and having input from outside
influences not just me and what that
would be like it can and it's little
it's hard isn't it this year
Britain's only identical quads are
turning
it's going to be a year of big changes
and it all starts with school they said
I'd woken them up to annex it was still
dark outside she still said she didn't
want to go they requested I put their
initials on the collar of their shirt so
that they didn't have to keep asking who
was hurt I felt that that wasn't fair on
their on their shoulder which is fine I
never imagined this point wasn't you
it's difficult to imagine having four
babies in the first place putting their
uniforms on that just seemed so grown-up
they're not little girls anymore little
their first day at school
the girls have never spent a whole day
away from their home family
[Music]
well one of the first times when I saw
them it was this some affair and they
all skipped off together and their hair
just bounced I thought do you know even
their hair is bouncing i deceived me so
I thought goodness me I am never gonna
tell them apart
I feel a little bit sad saying goodbye
because it's a big step you know I'm
handing care over to someone else
suppose there's a bit of me that feels
that I wish they would have been a
little bit sad that leave but no this
would be easier for me that they weren't
unhappy about it and that they were
quite confident quite happy to just go
the girls are in a class of just 14
children which means they'll make up
more than a quarter of the people living
in a small village most of the children
have known each other since birth but
that doesn't stop the Karnas girls
losing some confusion
how do you know aim or do you think they
all look different well they had the
same lunchboxes
they settled in really quickly sometimes
you felt that they moved as a unit so
that wasn't easy because sometimes you
felt that was four against one
[Music]
[Applause]
they were bit mean when another child
wanted to come to sit down but they just
were desperate to be together
the girls are settling in at school but
for Dad Jose what couldn't be further
away from domestic life in terms of my
position I'm the technical manager here
at Sandy and this is where all begins
you worked the biggest paving
manufacturers in the UK
so sometimes it gets into dye and I've
had a long day here and I know that when
I go at home I've got you know good
three four hours of work or
entertainment whatever you want to call
it and sometimes you I'll do sit here on
out 10 minutes have a coffee and just
prepare myself for chaos or cuddles or
whatever it may be able to when I walk
through the door
Jose hasn't just got four identical
daughters to look after he has to make
time for his teenage son as well having
five women in the house all the time
can't get a bit much come down here to
watch how they're playing football once
a week or once a fortnight depending and
yes just nice nice to get out in the
fresh air and see him do his boy thing
don't feel left out talkers like my dad
he plays with him a lot and be like I
have fun with him in he takes me to
football on that so I don't really feel
left out when I'm here bringing up such
a large family is a big burden for both
parents the fact that I'm not working
anymore
makes me wonder how I actually fitted it
all in in the first place
it's just always things to do right
housework cleaning washing tidying
organizing and cooking you know I have
to make him a plate look the saying
otherwise if one of them looks different
they'll wonder why or they want to don't
want whatever the other one's got so I
try to make every plate look exactly the
same
you may think that's strange
this is life living with four identical
girls you see when Julie returns to work
she'll need to depend on losing more
than ever to help with the kids and mom
and dad's parenting styles trouble is
with four excited girls even simple
things like bedtime become difficult
[Music]
what's gonna knock them a hyped-up
waffle is that once they like that
they're in their inner zone that you
can't
no human can break into is that that
foursome thing that they have is quite a
fierce bond that they they seem to have
that you just can't break and once
they're in that doing that kind of thing
this is no point in saying stop doing
that because it's just not going to
probably what's happening now is what
I've started in the bath
of course I've gone in there and got
them going wearing them up for bedtime
and it's not very good
she across with employment well yeah the
girls have been at school for a tonne
and their individual personalities are
becoming more obvious Georgie is very
challenging she would challenge
everything you say she will always be
right and you will be wrong she's even
said to me mummy you don't know best I
do and Ellie is most laid-back oh wow
very very I don't know just wants to be
happy all the time you know what's
everybody else to be happy
holy is little minx she likes being sent
to have attention
definitely who's your favorite boy at
school
is he your boyfriend yeah give you kids
what do you mean he's been giving you
kisses Holly its friend is just good to
lose your best friend Jess amazing Jess
has always been slightly different she's
sort of beats to a different drum and
always been a little bit more
independent they went around quite happy
in her own skin
jessica has been invited by an amazing
first date this is a very new thing this
is the first time this has ever happened
where one of them has gone to play with
someone else on their own without them
all together so this is quite new for us
what do you think about just going to
Macy's house
the girls are growing up and changing
and it's raising questions for mom and
dad I know that personalities aren't the
same why is that because they're
identical surely their personality
should be the same but they're not I'm
pretty ignorant on these things I'm not
a medical person but I'd love somebody
to come and tell me how it will works
and why
[Music]
dr. bonhomie oliver and dr. allison pipe
a psychologist specializing in child
development they both have a particular
interests in multiple siblings twins
these days dime-a-dozen
quadruplets Wow you know this this is
fascinating Julie and Jose have bought
the girls to London's Institute of
Psychiatry to get answers to some big
questions about their unique children
[Music]
what's unique about the girls is the
fact that there are four of them there
were four of them growing up in the same
environment of the same age with you
know very similar needs and wants and
wishes and so on at the same time it
gets a really nice natural experiment to
I'm trying to explore and tease out and
what's nature and what's nurture what to
do what the results show will be a
surprise for both the doctors and mom
and dad at the Institute of Psychiatry
the UK's only identical quotes are
undergoing a series of tests what I'm
interested in is seeing whether
particular assessments might uncover
some nuanced differences between the
girls they're genetically identical they
have shared the same rearing environment
same parents same school and so I am a
little bit worried that our assessments
may only show similarity among the girls
hi George are you gonna play my game
yeah first time actually is the payment
yeah
tell me George can you sit at ass that's
designed to show how the children might
differ in their risk-taking so it's a
kind of gap almost like a gambling task
there are nine treasure chests that have
got stickers in and you can open as many
treasure chests as you like but in one
of the treasure chests there's a pirate
and he's going to take your stickers
away if you open the box with him would
you like to open a box and see if you
can find a sticker as the experts
predicted Georgie and Chester will
behave in a similar way that seem happy
to take a few calculated risks however
Ellie's reaction is a surprise I just
got the pilot I'm not going to tell you
that's the game do you want to open a
box you don't want to open any boxes
that's fine then you can have your
lovely stick what really stood out about
Ellie and the risk-taking to us is she's
the only one who didn't want to open any
of the boxes but even Ellie wasn't
anxious about it she was sure that she
wasn't going to open them but the
risk-taking tasks did show big
differences in their impulsiveness
next up Allison takes each go through
the puppet tests I don't tell my sisters
what to do I do tell my sisters what to
do how about you so what this puppet
interview is designed to do is to get
children's own perspectives on family
life on their relationship with mom and
dad with resident brothers or sisters
when I'm at home I like to play with my
sisters when I'm at home I like to play
alone how about you they were actually
very similar in a lot of ways so they
all were talking about their
relationship with mom and with dad and
with each other in extremely positive
terms Jess's interview with the puppets
definitely stood out something else I
don't cry a lot I cry a lot how about
you Jess then she was more bold in you
know stroking Iggy and Ziggy she was
less willing to follow the exact
protocol of the interview so she stood
out from me as being a bit more of an
individual does your mom's Ben
more time with your sisters or more time
with you me that sounds like my mom she
was the one girl who did report parental
favoritism so all the other girls said
you know no mum and dad treat us exactly
the same but according to Jess she was
the favorite and it wasn't just the
behavioral tests that mark Jessica added
another watch Joey you're a star
this game is testing and what we call
phonological awareness is testing skills
that are linked to reading can you find
two that start with the same sound for
some of them the sort of concept had
taken the first letter off the word was
quite difficult if you take that girl
off gate what do you get left with
Thanks
if I take the birth off bar what's left
laughs it's quite a tough test for this
age Jess she sort of flew through
everything she did really well on all of
it she really got a hold of the task if
you take this off scarf what you get
left with ah well done Jessica has
already shown signs of independence
being the first to go on play dates
without her sisters and it's her results
that have proved the most revealing
first when she was born we probably did
treat her with a little bit more
delicacy maybe forward to a better word
she was actually going to die which is
why the birth was planned for the next
day the other thing also that I've just
remembered was she I would leave her
alone more because she wasn't doing the
trying to walk or track we know so she
should be quite happy left on her own
and I always remember thinking this is
going to affect the way she becomes as a
as a person and
as you know we are all a product of our
experience those tiny differences you
were talking about in terms of the way
you hold them or the way you speak to
them as small as they are it's those
tiny differences in their environmental
experience that can make a big
difference to who they are
[Music]
biologically physically personality-wise
they certainly are not identical and so
our expectation is that as the girls
grow older that they will become more
and more distinct over time more and
more individual the tests of given mum
and dad a better idea of the vital part
experience plays in their kids
development not treating them in
different ways because of maybe you know
like jess was small so you teach there
with more care that has had a knock-on
effect with the way she is is piecing
all that together and understanding that
it's okay this is this is why and like
their very first swimming lesson every
event of their minds will be important
[Music]
Julie understands that her daughters are
growing and changing but as Britain's
only mom of identical quotes there's
been no one for her to turn to for
parenting advice when I first found out
I was having quadruplets I did try and
contact a couple of other families but
you know they never called me back so I
sort of gave up after that because I was
too busy being in my home and looking
after them in search of health she's
been forced to look further afield and
has recently made contact with an
American family who've also got four
identical girls they've invited her to
come and visit her Julie
mine my family is very excited to meet
you the girls names are Kelly Kendra
Megan and Sarah age 18 very recently
teenagers well imagine what wine are
gonna be like when they're teenagers
mummy's going to go tomorrow she's gonna
go on the aeroplane and go to their home
and meet them
maybe some people would say well you
shouldn't look into the future but it
would be nice to have an idea of what
lies ahead love you oh it's doable okay
don't forget the light in the kitchen
[Music]
are you feeling
a little bit emotional
but excited as well
[Music]
if there's somebody on Milo why's there
isn't maybe you should use your rearview
me I can't I can't see it's mine come
face to face with it see it Kendra your
rearview mirrors right in front of your
face this leads me right out of town
I've got all this the camp Kelly
Kendra Megan and save often boffin in
the state of Minnesota I want to know
what life's gonna be like over the next
15 years
oh yeah right now you think it's
competitive over what church over and
you just wait there'll be more close
fights than you can ever know it depends
daily Hey ladies
probably the most important tip you need
is to have label labels because
otherwise they will fight and fight and
no one will knows know who is stuff is
what so always label it being teenage
girls one of their favorite ways to
spend a Saturday is it the local mall
[Music]
I like this shirt like I like this one
this is one I just had fitted me with
Tara let's see I was wear a cami I'm
great you should wear a belt with it
we're about black like would you if you
say you will bought what you've got
would you all swap and wear each others
more than like a labor Sarah's got
theirs if Callie bought anything she
wouldn't share with us I wouldn't wear
it and you might have really cute stuff
really I would definitely not wear that
I'd wear that oh no I don't know if I
would read but I don't to get what I
would wear these I will order the red
one the grid I wear the bowls already
like Julie's girls the durst quads are
approaching a pivotal point in their
lives they're leaving high school and
going to different colleges it'll be the
first time the girls have ever been
separated I I think it'd be good for us
to establish her own individuality we
read more about being apart from each
other
that's gonna be hard what you think is
going to do to your personality in terms
of the differences here mother figure
ooh yeah you'll be able to figure out
who you are without your sisters
I think I think we're all different just
because we're so used to thinking people
think we're so similar where people are
like yeah it's one of the quads you know
if one of them does this I bet you
they're the one does that too we
definitely think differently on a lot of
stuff and we act differently in so used
to people just only looking at the
similarities in us College is a perfect
place to start and branch off on your
own as much as we are together in as
much as we do stuff now the Taylors are
gonna change going off to school and and
stuff but we'll always have something
that can't be broken will always share
stuff that will never change even if
we're not as a part of each other's
lives
as we use we as we have been for the
past 18 years whilst julie is getting to
grips with her future the cat that I
rescued to work it's not the first time
wrong I think she does trust me I think
she just likes to have things carry on
in her routine while she's not here
anymore triangles and most housing deals
with domestically Julie's getting an
insight into the Durst family people why
do you talk to me like this - I didn't
know that's why you asked me do you want
to see Kendra's ethnographies yeah I
asked you guys that and you can let me
finish
my favorite oh my god I hope my not as
loud as they are but they're gonna be
you know that the girl said they talk
but it gets loud cuz it's full of them
and they were talking over each other
and then they will answering back and oh
my god it's crazy I'm gonna need lots of
um Prozac this week it's Julie's last
day in America with the identical durst
girls and she's thought of a way to
bring all the courts together Holly
how's Nathan you still got your hair
okay yeah just about Caddy's got a
headband on well cuz she likes to be
different would you not to be different
because because it's more fun and she
has three sisters that look like her and
she wants to be different I think we
look the same either you're not the same
we can all stay in touch before she
leaves Julie wants to get some final
words of wisdom from someone who's been
there before
we see our girls and you know that
they're together all the time
now even still you and I don't even
really fully know what it's like to go
somewhere and have people not really
know who you are sometimes family yeah
we experience it through them but you
know you did you trust yours the same
when they were younger I did and really
enjoy those days right now because once
they get to a certain age they do not
want to dress the same you guys are
leaving high school going off to college
is in different places
how does that make you feel you know a
little sad and you know even with all
the chaos and the noise and the the
fighting and the disagreements and all
that it's still it's going to be a big
adjustment for me I'm sure but you know
it's just the next step in life and on
the other hand your children need to
move on I mean it's just part of life
would come have you got one piece of
advice for me that you think would be
really useful that I could take back to
England yes I think I think as they grow
up it's important that you know cuz
you're always gonna be spending time
with all of them but make sure you find
your individual time with them all and
like help them to like figure out their
differences and not focus on their
similarities let them be who they want
to be you know and not push each other's
personalities on each other
it's kind of like coming to the
realization as a parent and as their own
sibling as to where you gotta you gotta
let go of the reins and be like you know
let them kind of run free certainly one
thing I've got from this weekend is that
before the thought of them going off on
their own in different directions made
me feel very anxious and worried and
emotional having met the girls I should
maybe try to encourage individuality
sooner rather than later so that they
have a sense of independence and freedom
from each other I'm looking forward to
getting on the plane and seeing my
[Music]
this has been an important year for the
courts with some big milestones along
the way as they spread their wings and
stepped out into the big wide world
the girls have grown and changed their
personalities are really beginning to
develop and and they are very different
they behave differently they play
differently and so they're getting more
independent more grown up today is the
biggest milestone so far the girls fifth
birthday
[Music]
preparations are underway Branagh
balloons cakes food banners the last
year's experiences have had a big impact
on mum and dad they've decided today's
the day to let the girls express their
individuality by choosing what they wear
they look beautiful with the Chosun
Express the party that will be its
future nice purple why are you wearing
different dresses because we like to be
different
are you always gonna dress differently
from now on yeah it's grown here I think
it's like this means their individual
personalities coming out totally
different we continue now
[Music]
I've always thought that they would it
were better if they all stuck together
all the time of course you know now
they're developing and the becoming
individuals I see that that's not
practical and not right at all
we've always done things as a as a
collective as a as a group and you know
like dressing in the same because have
been easier but as we've sort of gone
through this process we've started to
pull them apart a little bit more and
it's been nice I think as they grow and
they develop and their differences
become more different I think how lives
will probably be busier may be more
complicated the well the homework how
we're gonna do four different sets a
homework there's the you know the
wanting to look different the peer
pressure from other friends the
different friends they might have boys
oh my god boy boys things like hair
styles hair straighteners shoes if
they're anything like me oh my god how
many pairs of shoes a week and a half I
have to have a whole room they get into
sweat
[Laughter]
[Music]